[Music]
what is up everybody welcome to a very
special episode of impact theory i'm
going to be taking your questions today
and we're going to be talking about how
to stay motivated even through the most
difficult of times and this is one of
the weirdest times i think any of us
have lived through and so this is going
to be a great opportunity for you guys
to hit me with the things that are
pressing on you right now and for me to
have a chance to see if the things that
i think are actually going to help you
through i would give you those answers
in real time i actually don't know who
you guys are going to ask so i'm super
excited for this and for everybody that
sent in a video thank you for submitting
those and without further delay here we
go question number one
hi tom my name is kyle from haplorm i'm
a business owner
my question is about exercise
during the start of the
covet
i decided to focus on one
objective only in doubles exercise
and i got in a mindset where i felt very
motivated every day to do my exercise
and i i made it to a 70-day streak
without missing missing a beat and that
would be you know between half an hour
to 45 minutes body weight exercise and
then another hour of cardio
and you know about six weeks ago i i
kind of
lost the motivation
and i just can't seem to find it anymore
what is your recommendation or process
you know to find that that inner drive
again to keep on doing it
all right i love this so motivation
comes in waves that's the most important
thing to understand is and that's just
neurobiology so that's true for
everybody motivation is um it is a very
complicated cocktail of beliefs of
excitement thinking about you know what
you're going to achieve it is how your
calorie count is how much sleep you've
gotten all of these things bundled up
and so it is inevitable that sometimes
you're really going to feel it and
sometimes you're not i'm blown away that
you were able to get a 70-day streak
most people go their entire lives and
not be able to string something like
that together so some of what we're
going to be doing to get you back in
that space is to remember what it was
that had you stoked in the beginning so
a big part of motivation is
is always about actually wanting that
thing at the end of the rainbow so what
is your pot of gold what is the thing
that made you want to do this in the
first place and so when it comes to
working out personally i absolutely hate
working out so i understand anybody that
has motivation for a minute and then
ends up burning out i get that so much i
can't even begin to tell you so here are
the things that i do to make sure that
even as these sort of ebbs and flows go
of my motivation that i stay on track
number one is making sure that you want
that thing at the end that you're
actually excited about that so you've
got to be honest with yourself about
what it is that you want so often
people are judging themselves for what
it is that they want that they don't
double down on focusing on that thing so
let's say that you just want to look
good when you're naked and that that is
the the god's honest truth about what is
getting you excited about this and what
you're going to want to say is you know
this is about longevity i just want to
be healthy i want to be you know my best
self but in reality you're just thinking
about six pack abs washboard stomach or
the way you look when you catch yourself
in the mirror what whatever is real or
if you're like me and you're a
psychopath about wanting to live forever
and that really is the thing that
motivates you then lean into that but
don't let other people's judgments about
what you should want color what you
actually want so that's the the
beginning focus on what what is it you
really want what is it you really care
about grab onto that focus on that start
fantasizing about that again spending
time thinking about what it would be
like to actually have that because you
set a word in your question that i want
to take exception to which is that you
want to find your motivation again you
don't find motivation you build
motivation so we're going to build that
motivation back up by admitting what we
really want by focusing on it and
getting hype about it and then we also
want to find a way to really fall in
love with the process so what is it in
the moment in the act of actually
working out that you can get into is it
the um getting stronger for me that was
huge like knowing that i was getting
stronger and i needed to associate
something with that you want to have a
self-narrative around showing up and
doing this thing when you know other
people can't they won't during
covid during lockdown they're getting
worse they're getting weaker you're
getting stronger you're getting better
and people are so
weird
about competition
but my friend
let me tell you one one of the most
controversial posts that i posted
recently which i did not expect to be
controversial was that i was talking
about business
but i said this is a competition
which is patently self-evident in my
opinion
but being willing to compete with others
and to have a self-narrative around
striving and pushing and doing more than
other people are willing to do that [__]
will feed your soul in a way that i
can't convey and people that are afraid
to compete people that are afraid to
lean in people are that are afraid to
make huge demands of themselves they
will fall by the wayside to the people
that can have that discipline that get
excited about pushing themselves being
accountable being consistent because
ultimately those things lead to an
actual outcome meaning you actually do
get stronger you do get better you look
better you have better longevity better
stamina whatever it is whatever that
thing is that you're motivated by you
really can achieve that but you have to
be consistent now i got motivated just
answering your question so i'm very
hopeful that that motivated you as well
all right what's up next what do we got
hi my name is lydia i'm a violinist and
an actor
um
an american living in new zealand now
because of coronavirus i lost my jobs on
cruise ships so i'm just curious tom as
to what advice you'd give to artists
beyond doing live streams um
so like dancers actors or performers
what advice would you give to them how
to deal with the corona situation
what skills should artists be focused on
and how can they maximize this
quarantine um for the best opportunities
well i love that so
being an artist right now this is like
the best
possible time to have something that you
can do by yourself that you can improve
on by yourself
that's ultimately going to have real
world consequences for you when we get
to the other side of this so here is and
and something tells me that if you're
playing professionally you already know
this but here's the the reality about
greatness greatness is about doing the
things that are
tragically boring and that you have to
repeat over and over and over to get
better at them in a deliberate way you
don't just want to repeat them blindly
but in a deliberate way buckling down
and doing the things like for a musician
playing your scales practicing your
improvisation practicing your cold
reading
all of the things that are very easy to
put off when you have a job and you're
busy and you're making a living um it's
it's kind of like typing what they find
is most people sort of their their
typing rate if i remember right it's
like 65 to 70 words per minute um is
where most people tap out but
i think the record is somewhere around
250 correct words per minute so if the
average person is tapping out around 65
but the delta is all the way between 65
and 250 you begin to see like how far
you can really push yourself but people
get to a level that they deem acceptable
and they just sort of stop there but
because everybody is being forced to
shut down right now if you're a musician
and you're saying look i'm not worried
about streaming and going live and all
of that which
i think there's a whole question to be
answered about doing that and about how
you could generate even more revenue by
going online but you asked me to set
that aside so i'm going to set that
aside but right now is that chance to
embrace a level of boredom that most
people are not willing to push through
in order to get to greatness so in a
business context i always tell people
boredom kills more entrepreneurs than
anything it kills more entrepreneurs
than fear most people
they just can't slog through sucking at
something and sitting in the discomfort
that you get from doing the things that
you're not good at
long enough
to get good at even those things so that
you can truly go out and create art
because i don't think you can create
real art until you've mastered the
basics to the point where as bruce lee
said you don't think kick you just
kick
and i love that quote there's another
bruce lee idea which is i don't fear the
man who knows ten thousand kicks i fear
or i don't fear the man that does ten
thousand kicks one time i fear the man
that does one kick ten thousand times
and that is this moment and if you can
take this down time and let go of how
good it feels to perform i have to
imagine a big part of the reason you got
into this and that you did all of the
work when you were younger to get good
is because you love performing so much
but right now that's basically off the
table
so if in this moment you can buckle down
be disciplined set your sights on
something very specific that you want to
get good at disciplined practice
at that thing to get good at this on the
other side of this you're going to be
far more extraordinary than you were
when you went in because you no longer
have the distractions of the actual
performance you can just get down to
practicing so flip that switch in your
mind and think all about coming out the
other side of this a beast an absolute
monster better than you went in and if
you can tell yourself that story i'm
committed to this i'm willing to do
these things that other people aren't
willing to do and put in the practice
and understand as you're going through
that unimaginable boredom that on the
other side of this is a skill set
that has utility
then this becomes an extraordinary time
but if you keep telling yourself the
story that so many others are telling
which is this is you know a time of
deprivation it's um just lamenting that
you're not able to perform and all the
things that made you love music in the
first place then just because you're
repeating that it becomes a dark time
focus on the other side and you will get
through this amazingly
all right
what's up next
hey tom i'm ono i'm from canada and i am
an author um i have a two-part question
for you
the first part is
you mentioned before that
under a extremely high stress situation
it takes you up to 45 minutes to bring
yourself back down
to a baseline so the first part of my
question is
what kind of stress was that that took
you up to a 45
minute window because i know that as a
general rule you're very good at
mitigating your stress and bringing it
back down very quickly so i'm just
curious what kind of stress that was
and the second part of my question is
do you handle your meditative practice
differently
depending on what kind of stress is the
the trigger so for example if you are
fearful or if you are angry for example
do you do anything differently um
physical activity or anything like that
or is it always the same process
thank you
okay so i will answer those in reverse
order and i will say that i don't
change my meditation practice based on
the type of stress
the reason is meditation for me is not a
spiritual act meditation for me is
entirely biological so when i think
about
why meditation became so powerful for me
it was because from the very first
diaphragmatic breath that i ever took i
felt immediate movement from the
sympathetic nervous system which is
fight or flight into the parasympathetic
nervous system which is rest and digest
literally from the first moment that i
intentionally took a diaphragm breath i
felt
relief is probably the right word so
because
i felt an immediate reduction in my
level of anxiety so that is it is
immediate
it is biological so there is a feedback
feedback mechanism from the brain to the
body and the body to the brain that when
you breathe from your diaphragm if you
learn how to do that well that
you can't stop it
from
moving you over into the parasympathetic
nervous system i pause there because
there are things that could be wrong if
you have
a
certain type of nutrient deficiency if
you look up
the the
the importance of vitamin d which is a
hormone actually a hormone precursor
that you get from exposure to the sun
you can also supplement and k2
you can actually get either where you
don't have one or the other or they're
not in the right balance and you can get
into a position where neurologically you
find it very hard to move over into
parasympathetic but i'm going to set
that aside for a second and just say
if you're
reasonably in balance from that
perspective
when you take that diaphragm breath it
shifts you over so no matter what i'm
feeling just doing a um
it's sort of a variation on box
breathing where it's a four part breath
cycle you breathe in through your nose
with a diaphragm breath you hold on the
inhale for me it's very brief you exhale
for me i just let the air out and then
you hold on the exhale and then you
repeat the cycle into your nose out
through your mouth
and
when i do that with proper diaphragm
breathing i just man it it is really
amazing how rapidly i can shift into
being calm now like you said there are
some times in my life where i've been so
extraordinarily stressed out uh that it
takes me what i will say is a very long
time so but the good news is that
knowing that i'm never more than 45
minutes away from being at what i call
no background radiation so
anxiety for me feels like background
radiation and when i'm completely calm i
feel like i've gotten that to zero and
i'm in a calm and creative state
and the times that i've been most
stressed are times where you're dealing
with hundreds of millions of dollars
that the decisions that you make are not
only affecting you but they're affecting
other people they're you know you're
affecting your employees like when you
have your own company
there really is a tremendous amount of
weight
if you're not a sociopath with knowing
that your employees livelihoods are tied
up in this company that you're creating
and that they're trying to take care of
themselves they're trying to take care
of their families and you're all
intertwined and that the choices that
you make
don't just affect you they affect other
people and so
that's when i feel a much heavier burden
is when i feel like this isn't just
about me man this is about other people
and when it's about not just me but
other people and there are huge sums of
money huge consequences at risk that was
the time in my life because it was the
first time that i had ever been in that
sort of extreme circumstance um where
yeah it took me a good 45 minutes to
calm down all right next question
hi my name is eva choi i own a small
business in calgary alberta canada
i have a question about motivation and
team and leadership
it's been almost five months since the
pandemic has been announced and my
husband who's my business partner he and
i are pretty tired because we also
manage um a family three children who
are elementary school aged
in the meantime our team our fulfillment
and customer service teams have been
taking a pretty good
beating in the land of customer service
clients are triggered clients are
emotionally fragile
clients are very very demanding during
these times for the most part our team
has been really great about it but it's
steaming to take its toll
i was wondering if you had any nuggets
of information on how i can help lead my
team to keep them
hopeful and optimistic and positive
through these times thank you
yeah wow i love that you're asking that
question anybody that's thinking about
that is thinking about the right things
one of the things i think people don't
understand about being a ceo is that
ultimately being a ceo running a company
is almost
i mean it's
70 percent people i mean the strategy is
definitely important but man momentum
isn't about moving fast or i should say
it isn't just about moving fast it's
about getting a group of people pointed
in the same direction and moving fast
and so understanding how to galvanize a
team and get them pointed in the same
direction is really really critical so
in this specific time number one is
leading by example always and forever if
you want to do anything when people are
involved whether it's kids whether it's
somebody you love that is um there's a
piece of advice you definitely
desperately want them to take and
they're not taking it
whether it's your company the answer is
always first and foremost lead by
example that is critically important so
you want to be hopeful you want to be
optimistic you want to show them through
your behaviors and your actions time and
time again with an inhuman level of
consistency exactly how to face
adversity now you don't want to [__]
you don't want to lie so you want to
make sure that you're doing the work to
make sure that you're keeping yourself
hopeful and optimistic now how do we
stay hopeful and optimistic we have to
have certain beliefs in place and we
have to have certain rules in place so
first of all as it comes to rules i know
that i always need to be moving forward
i can never be afraid to make a decision
that i would rather be running a
thousand miles an hour in the wrong
direction than standing still okay that
rule has served me very well now why is
it better tom you're running in the
wrong direction that's way worse than
standing still
not true
the reason that you never want to stand
still is there's zero progress made when
you stand still when you move you're at
least learning even if you're moving in
the wrong direction failure is the most
information rich data stream you will
ever encounter let me say that again
failure moving in the wrong direction
is the most information rich data stream
you will ever encounter meaning you're
going to learn a lot so now when you
turn around and you start moving in the
right direction you're making a huge
amount of progress so even though yes
you have to backtrack it's still far
better than standing still and not
learning those lessons so that is huge
so you have that rule now beliefs you
need to believe that if it doesn't
violate the laws of physics then you can
solve the problem what happens is most
people stay in this frame of mind where
all they can see are the problems and
right now there is an avalanche of
problems it is so easy to get mired into
problems
but if you have a belief
that as long as it doesn't violate the
laws of physics this is possible that
any obstacle can be overcome that you
just have to figure out what it is
that's going to allow you to go over
this obstacle under this obstacle
through this obstacle around this
obstacle whatever but you know that
giving up is not an option now it's like
cool hey even if i fail even if i mess
up i'm going to learn so there's some
hope there's some optimism right you can
meet your team with a truism something
that you actually believe
you can use jaco willing's language
which he says anytime something goes
wrong his only response is good the
enemy is bearing down on us good we
don't have enough equipment good and
because he meets it with that he stays
in a solution oriented mindset now you
always want to be in a solution-oriented
mindset when all you're doing is
focusing on the problems
and the most sinister thing about
excuses is how valid they are so i get
it you have every excuse in the book for
things to fail to not be optimistic to
not be hopeful i get it and it's all
real we are going through the most
devastating time for a business ever
and how do i respond to that
good
because i know in this there is going to
be a solution and i'm going to figure it
out where a lot of people are going to
break because they're not going to be
able to get their head in the right
place so my team can see that i'm
hopeful i'm optimistic because i have
that belief because i have the rule to
be moving forward to figure this out to
not be afraid to fail and they see me
with that like almost
naive optimism always moving forward but
they also see me learning from my
mistakes reorienting and moving forward
again if you can do that you're actually
going to get results and nothing is more
hopeful than results
word
all right who's next
hey tom i appreciate the consideration
for my question
my name is jonathan pasilio and i am in
the charlotte north carolina area
my motivational question is really about
balancing family life and the time that
you allocate to pursue all of your
dreams and goals so i have a young
family with two daughters beautiful wife
two two beautiful daughters and they're
young they're three years and six months
so i'm not even sleeping through the
night yet right so i think i've done a
great job over the last three years
transforming my mindset to really be
crystal clear on where i spend my time
and removing activities and things that
were enjoyable but you know didn't
really help me pursue my dreams but now
i'm at the point where i'm almost
feeling like a failure or behind or i'm
not accomplishing enough fast enough
and i've removed those things so now
it's all that's left is family time and
it's already hard enough with young
young children and a wife who works
full-time as well as myself and so my
question is how do you coach students or
entrepreneurs that are in this boat with
a young family and feeling like they're
they're grinding along and they're not
making enough progress but
they feel like the only alternative is
to take away more family time i'm really
struggling with that and any advice
would be great thanks so much
all right
this is so critical
you have to know what your priorities
are and you have to be able to close
your eyes and imagine what a win looks
like the big problem here is that so
many people either don't have clarity on
their goals or they have conflicting
goals that they've never resolved so i
will state
what my priorities are so you can see
exactly how i've organized my life
so number one without question in no
uncertain terms by a massive margin my
number one priority is my marriage now
why is my marriage my number one
priority my marriage is my number one
priority because nothing and i mean
nothing not the level of success no um
awards no amount of money nothing has
brought me the kind of joy that my
marriage brings me so i am hyper
protective of that now
that actually doesn't get the bulk of my
time the bulk of my time goes to my
business now here's something that's
really going to freak you out i'll give
you my top three priorities number one
my wife
number two
my business
number three
my family now that is [__] hard for
people to hear but that's the truth now
that doesn't mean that i don't love my
family it doesn't mean that i don't give
them time and energy but it does mean
that the reality is that i have many
times sacrificed something that i wanted
to do with my family for my business
and
being able to say that out loud letting
them know making sure they feel to the
core of their being how much i love them
because that is not a statement on how
much i love them that's the statement of
me closing my eyes and imagining a win
and what does my life look like my life
looks like i have this marriage that's
[__] awesome and it feeds me
emotionally i have this business where i
get to express myself i get to learn and
grow and so my business is just is the
way that i manifest potential to me
turning my potential into actual usable
skills it needs an outlet that outlet
for me is my business so you could say
it's not really about my business it's
about the pursuit of greatness it's
about me wanting to go all in on my own
life and express myself through the
vehicle of business but that [__] means
something to me man and i told my wife
you can ask me to give up anything in
this world anything except
ambition
don't ever ask me to give up ambition
because i value that in myself i value
myself for my willingness to sincerely
pursue greatness okay so now you have to
have that clarity on what your
tops are and you can't have two
competing number ones it's not family
and business if it's [__] family man
lead your life according to that and if
you're not having the wins that you want
in your business who the [__] cares your
number one priority is your family crush
it man all in kill it do whatever it
takes unconflicted i have chills on the
back of my head because that is so true
like if you want to be if a win to you
is being the greatest dad and husband of
all time
then be the greatest dad husband of all
time
and if your number two priority is
building your business then it's in
second place and it's gonna get what it
can get now
that doesn't mean that you can't be
really hardcore about second place but
one don't value yourself for results i
will tell you right now all the wins in
business that you're ever gonna get all
the money in the world it's powerful
it's amazing and you will love taking
care of your family but even that was a
reorientation back to your true number
one if i had to guess which is your
family so be focused on that right this
is really about my family if the
business isn't working out if it's not
going the way that you want look it's
going to be lame it's going to suck but
you're going to have to alter your mind
to remind yourself my number one
priority is my family and what i value
myself for on the business side is not
accomplishment it is not success so
decide what your priorities are and
don't flinch don't be conflicted don't
try to have my business is as important
as my family and really don't value
yourself for accomplishment it's all
about sincere pursuit okay you cannot
guarantee the success you can guarantee
the struggle so
you need to extract value from knowing
that you left it all out on the field
and that's it's all you can do
all right next up
hey this is lydia i'm a film student but
my film career just kind of started very
suddenly out of nowhere very
unexpectedly
and which is great but i've been handed
a lot of responsibility and i have
really no idea what i'm doing
so i am constantly anxious
i tend not to show it but i'm having a
lot of trouble
relaxing and just handling that pressure
so how do you
remain confident and don't lose your
mind when you've no idea what you're
doing and there's a lot of pressure on
you
uh okay so a few things on that one um
number one there is a great quote and
i'm definitely paraphrasing from jim
carrey and he said until you have
been in a position where people tell you
that your whole career hinges on this
moment there are people watching you
right now and if you impress them it's
going to be good forever man it's going
to make you but if you mess it up you're
never gonna get a chance like this again
he said until you've been in that
position five times and screwed it up
every one of those times you haven't
even begun if you're really showing up
and you're giving it your all and you're
trying to do your best and you end up
messing up and you even get fired or
something like that i promise you in the
grand scheme of things it won't matter
what will matter is what do you learn do
you actually get better from that so if
you go in and fail but you're learning
and growing and applying that
even if you get fired you're going to be
able to leverage that learning now i
will tell you as an employer i'm not
worried about whether people fail what
i'm worried about is are they learning
are they looking for ways to contribute
that are beyond their job description
are they all in for their own reasons i
don't want people trying to impress me i
always tell my employees don't do it to
try to impress me do it because you want
to be great do it because you want to
get good at this thing and you just so
happen to work here at this moment but
you're just trying to be amazing and
when you've got people that are going
hard like that for their own reasons
they want to get good they're not afraid
to try something they're not afraid to
fail because they know they're going to
learn they're going to ask they're going
to push they're going to be great
teammates they're going to be hopeful
and optimistic they're going to be fun
to be around because they're trying to
get good
and they know that failure is a part of
that process so they're not weighed down
by it they're not fretting over every
little thing they just get in there and
they throw some punches and they see
like what works what doesn't they're
always getting better that die-hard
mentality i love that [__] so much and
it also by the way as the boss as the
person that can't be fired
i love seeing other people do that
because it gives me
the sense that i get to do that too now
yes of course i'm setting the standard
i'm
leading by example and all that but it's
still awesome to see other people doing
it you're like yeah that's right this
like is real this is a great way to
learn and get better and we want to lift
people up that are doing that so one
have that in your your mind even if the
current place you work is full of
psychopaths and if you don't do it
perfectly they're going to fire you
you can move on to the next one with
that knowledge and hopefully find a
group of people that want to they want
to see people pushing the envelope then
the other is you're going to have to
learn to manage your anxiety leaving it
untreated is going to become a problem
trust me i'm speaking from experience so
learning to meditate and anxiety is so
complicated but meditation is huge your
diet is huge
i think
almost certainly what we're gonna find
over the next five to ten years is that
the
single biggest factor in terms of
whether or not you experience anxiety
has to do with your microbiome
okay
i won't go into that here we're staying
focused on mindset and motivation but
i think that keeping your diet right
exercising getting sleep these are all
going to be hugely important so let
yourself off the hook don't hold
yourself to some crazy standard go mess
up go learn it all stacks knowledge
stacks you'll be able to take it with
you wherever you go learn to meditate
eat right exercise sleep that's the key
there it is that's the truth that was
the gospel right there all right
everybody thank you guys so much for
those questions staying motivated during
these difficult times is critical but
ultimately it's up to you it's not about
gimmicks it's about what are you
repeating in your head what are you
allowing yourself to believe what are
you focusing on what's your identity all
the things we just talked about over
this last whatever 40 minutes 50 minutes
like getting that in your head
that becomes the critical part so that
you're staying optimistic you're staying
hopeful you're moving you're going a
thousand miles an hour in some direction
so that you can learn you're practicing
you're meditating you're keeping your
mind in the right place you're focused
on one belief if nothing else which is
that if it doesn't violate the laws of
physics it is possible and you're
getting yourself excited about what
you're trying to achieve if you get that
cocktail right there really is
precious little that you can't
accomplish so remember we're all in the
middle of a lockdown and the only way
that we should greet that is by saying
good so here we are make the most of it
everybody all right if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care
something out loud
it's 10 times more powerful than if they
think it
and then as we started to study the data
particularly data that was just
reinforced by christine porath from
georgetown and harvard that negativity
is a multiple of four to seven times
more powerful than positive